[RUMBLING]
[SWOOSH]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: What
if suffering is an option?
This is the thought
that Bill McKenna
is going to share with us today
in the face of a great deal
of suffering in the year 2020.
This is what I call
useful information.
So I don't need to go any more.
Let's just jump right into it.
Bill, welcome back.
>>BILL MCKENNA: Oh, thank you.
I'm so excited to be here.
>>REGINA: You're always
an audience favorite
because you're so
excited to be here.
You're just excited about life
and excited with everything
that's going on,
even if it looks
like it's a little
challenging in the moment.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, yeah, it is.
Well, it is for a lot of people.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: We've discovered some
methods to make it optional.
It sounds crazy, but
this was reserved
for maybe a yogi
in the Himalayas
that suffering
would be optional.
>>REGINA: Right.
Well, I mean you've been
working with us a long time,
and you're not really
your ordinary kind of guy.
I mean, we've had
conversations in the past
where you've explained a bit
about where your interests were
even as a young man,
some of the experiences
you were experiencing.
Let's just go ahead and kind
of give them a little glimpse
into young Bill, or Billy,
or whomever you were then.
>>MCKENNA: Oh.
>>REGINA: Were you
Billy or were you--
>>MCKENNA: I was Billy.
>>REGINA: You were Billy.
I thought so.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah,
I was Billy, yeah.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about what little Billy was
like that created the Bill
today because you saw life
differently from an early age.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
My perception was that I had a
traditional Irish upbringing--
mental illness, alcoholism,
those sorts of--
>>REGINA: Just like my
family lineage, grandpa.
>>MCKENNA: Right.
>>REGINA: Arthur Lenahan.
So that upbringing kind
of shaped my reality.
And it was merely a perception.
But ultimately it led me
to forgive everything,
and that was the
beginning of my awakening.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: From there,
all kinds of other things
started happening.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Well, you have this kind
of overwhelming kind
of puppy level of enthusiasm
that most people, I'm sure,
admire if not envy.
How do you wake up so
kind of charged, just
having this natural amount of
energy running through you?
And in your case, it
does carry this optimism
and also that's taking you into
a very proactive phase of life
in creating the Cognomovement.
So what is it that fuels you?
Everyone has a fuel
that charges you
to get up in the morning
with all this energy.
>>MCKENNA: Oh, gosh.
Well, now, really, it's all
about service to others.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MCKENNA: I can't help it.
I went from service 100% to
self to now service to others.
And it's just, I can't help it.
And so I get a lot
of ideas and concepts
and things that actually
can help a person to process
events of life, help them to
physically perform better,
all kinds of different things.
And I had wonderful
teachers along the way
that kind of helped me.
I stand on the
shoulders of giants.
>>REGINA: Yes, and I just
want to insert something.
This is a total--
it's not exactly a non
sequitur, but it just
popped into my mind to say this.
What you just said, that now
you wake up with this enthusiasm
because your desire is to
be of service to others.
And this is one thing I've
noted throughout my life.
And I've meant to bring it up
in a couple other interviews
it was tickling my mind.
And that is during
a time where you
have such great
stress, sometimes
you just don't have
it figured out yet.
You haven't touched
on your truth,
how you fit into all of this.
But the one thing
I've found in life
that transcends all of that
is if there's something
you can do for someone else,
just anything you can do
for someone else to make them
a little more comfortable,
to bring a smile
to someone's face,
just to spoil them
even a little bit,
immediately I find
energy moves upward
once we choose to dedicate
something in ourselves
to something in someone else.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, that's true.
That's true.
>>REGINA: And we
can all do that.
And that's a way to
immediately shift energy.
>>MCKENNA: It is.
It is.
And most people,
it's not available.
And the reason it's not--
>>REGINA: What do you
mean it's not available?
>>MCKENNA: Not available because
there's part of them that
has not been healed yet.
They're overcome in shame,
humiliation, guilt, grief.
They have kind of
obsessive loops going on.
Almost anybody that
you meet, there's
a war going on inside of them
that we know nothing about.
And so one of the
things that I've done
is to help people
to break the loops.
>>REGINA: Yes.
Yeah, you have.
>>MCKENNA: So that once
they've broken the loop,
whole new perceptions now
emerge, and they can actually
start being of service.
They can see a
broader perspective.
Not only can they see a broader
perspective intellectually,
but actually with
their peripheral vision
as well, literally.
>>REGINA: No, that is true.
And I don't know this
because, like you say,
every person is wired
so uniquely differently.
And we're going to get
into the nature of that
because it really involves
the subconscious mind
and what we carry around by way
of perception and experience.
But would you say in working
with people in general
that most people live in
a fair amount of fear?
>>MCKENNA: Almost
everybody, almost everybody
lives in an incredible amount
of fear, but it's disguised.
>>REGINA: So what does
fear look like in disguise?
>>MCKENNA: Oh, fear--
>>REGINA: The masks of fear.
>>MCKENNA: The masks of fear are
really shame and humiliation.
Or fear will show
itself as anxiety.
Fear will show itself as grief.
It shows itself as all
kinds of different things.
It shows itself as resentment.
It shows itself as blame.
So it's everywhere.
And people are expressing
it just in different ways.
Most of all, people
are experiencing it
as a drain of energy.
Literally as we get
older, over time
we find that we have less energy
because we have experiences
that pile up, one
after the next,
like a betrayal, a
death of a loved one,
a feeling of an
insult by somebody.
And we loop through thoughts,
a feeling and a thought.
And what ends up happening
is that these things
slowly and bit by
bit drain our energy.
And now, which we'll get into,
we can actually prove it.
And we can prove it through
the Bio-Well system.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And that is a very
good point you make.
Now, I'm going to turn
this into a somewhat
of a personal conversation
because I was born
configured in a certain way
where my body doesn't create
natural cortisol, which is your
defense to everything, right?
And so one thing that triggers
cortisol in our bodies
faster than anything is fear.
And so I'm like a
canary in the coal mine.
If I go into fear,
I start tanking,
and that can become
a very serious issue.
It's not just a
little bit of a drain.
But because I'm so
sensitively wired
and don't have that infusion
of cortisol to come in
and to keep your
vitals going and stem
the whatever the
situation at hand is,
I can see just how
incredibly dramatically fear
drains the human body.
To me, going into
fear is the difference
between ending up in the ER
or not ending up in an ER,
for example.
>>MCKENNA: Wow.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: So I'm looking
at it at large thinking,
humanity is going around
like this responding
to fear all the time.
They just don't have that
sense, that physical strange
sensitivity that's going
to put them in the ER.
But it's draining them
nonetheless unconsciously
all day, every day.
I can't afford to stay in fear
because it's so consequential.
But I see it all
the time in people,
and I understand how it happens,
but you're not aware of it.
You're just a little more
tired, a little less shiny
as the days, weeks, years go
on if you don't address it.
>>MCKENNA: It's true.
If you look at it,
like when you were
a teenager, all your creativity,
all of your physical energy--
>>REGINA: So excited
about everything.
>>MCKENNA: Right?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: And then as you watch
people age, most people dull.
Everything about them dulls,
and they have lower energy.
They walk slower, talk slower.
Everything--
>>REGINA: Stoop.
Their shoulders start stooping.
This is a big one.
That's my thing.
I tell people, hey, stand up.
Stand up straight.
Get your shoulders back.
>>MCKENNA: That's right.
>>REGINA: So you can feel
your own energy again.
>>MCKENNA: You bet.
And so when we
clear the situation,
let's say we start to clear the
guilt, the grief, the blame,
the things that are sitting
out there for people.
What happens is they
get their energy back.
They literally go
from 14 hours of sleep
now to seven hours of sleep.
They have energy to
create new things.
I had this wonderful story.
It was a woman who came in, and
she was a doctor, financially
stressed.
And it was layered.
I worked with her
with Cognomovement,
and we cleared this
feeling of stress.
Amazing thing happened.
With that week-- this is Sunday.
On Monday, she gets a
phone call from her mother.
40 years-- 40 years, her mother
never apologized for squat,
just did what she did.
And all of a sudden
Monday, she's calling.
Hey, you know what?
I admit it.
Admit it.
And I want to apologize.
And I want to restart.
And it was the birth of their
relationship at 40 years.
>>REGINA: Oh, wow.
>>MCKENNA: And not only that--
not only that, but she
goes on that week--
that week, less
than one week later,
she produced this painting.
And this painting she did
in a medium she never did.
It's a flower.
It has beautiful colors.
And she never painted
the subject matter.
She figured out a mathematical
formula to paint it.
Mathematical formula-- I
never even thought about
a mathematical
formula for painting--
>>REGINA: Oh, sure,
with flowers, sure.
>>MCKENNA: --because I'm
not an artist like that.
But anyway, there's so
many stories that I'll
tell some more about that.
>>REGINA: Oh, no, I love that.
OK, I think it's time we start
digging into the nature of mind
because this is really
where we're hung up.
It's at that mental level.
Events happen.
We react emotionally.
It gets stuffed into one
of these compartments,
and there we stay, getting a
little duller with each year
as more stuff gets stuck there.
So in reality, we're
only working with
and aware of about 5% of
our reality through what
we call the conscious mind,
which is quite a misnomer,
in my opinion, but with
the conscious mind.
But 95% of the rest of it
is really being run out
of the subconscious mind.
>>MCKENNA: That's correct.
And what we do
here is, as humans,
we fight our subconscious
and our feelings
with our conscious mind.
It's an unfair battle.
>>REGINA: It's unwinnable.
>>MCKENNA: It's unwinnable.
So we're sitting there
doing meditations,
and we're doing mantras
and affirmations,
reading books, all kinds of
things that we do, right?
And I've done them too.
>>REGINA: That we can stuff
into that 5% of the mind.
>>MCKENNA: We're
stuffing it real good,
and we're really
working really hard.
So what happens is
people go to the seminar.
They go to the ashram.
Ram Dass, wonderful man,
he talks about this.
You go to the ashram,
and you're high, right?
You're high.
You're at love and
bliss and all that.
And then you come back, and then
you talk to your mom and dad
and it's like, [DECLINING TONE].
Right?
And everybody
witnesses this, right?
You go to a Tony Robbins deal.
You're pumped up for-- you know?
And then [DECLINING TONE].
You've got keep doing it.
But the problem is that
what is being not dealt with
is the feelings in our body.
So we have--
>>REGINA: And those
are associated
with the subconscious, which
we'll talk about in a moment.
>>MCKENNA: Exactly.
Exactly.
So there-- we get these
feelings in our body.
And then when we
have the feeling,
we associate a thought with it.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>MCKENNA: And then when
we have the thought,
it further fuels the feeling.
So we have these
stored in our body.
If we don't eliminate
that, then we just
have this repetitive loop that
just goes on and on and on.
So this amazing story.
My mom, 12 kids in our family--
12 kids.
We're very Irish, right?
Irish Catholic.
So she has 12 kids.
>>REGINA: Saturday
nights were good.
[LAUGHTER]
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
So there she is, and she signs--
she wanted to take my course.
And she's in her 80s, and she
wanted to take the course.
So, OK, we do like week or month
long courses where the people
can come several times a week.
And interesting thing happened.
And I didn't know
this about my mom.
It's about a month in, month
and a half in, I can't remember.
And she pipes up in
the class and she says,
I don't know what's going on.
But here I am.
Every day of my life, I've woke
up with a feeling of dread,
and it's gone.
And I feel like
nothing can touch me.
>>REGINA: You had 12 kids.
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: Of course
you're feeling dread.
But now, here she is.
She's saying, I feel there's
things going on around me,
but I'm a witness to the events.
I'm no longer affected
by the events.
>>REGINA: Wow
>>MCKENNA: So this
is next-level stuff.
>>REGINA: How old was your
mom when this happened?
>>MCKENNA: Oh, this
was like a week ago.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK, so she's up there.
>>MCKENNA: Oh yeah,
she's up there.
She's in her 80s.
And so it gives me great joy
to see her in a situation
where she's no longer--
she says, I'm not trying,
and I'm sleeping through the
night, and I wake up happy.
And I say, well, what
we do in these workshops
and these seminars is
we go step by step.
We'll clear out all of
the shame and humiliation,
or we work on different
subjects, like victimization.
And they do Cognomovement,
and they feel it.
It's kind of the opposite
of everything else,
is to try to vanquish something.
You actually feel it,
and you do the exercise,
and your body will actually--
you can physically feel
it, your body move.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I've done a
session with you personally.
And so let's talk about
the mechanics of it
before we get into the
Cognomovement, then.
So here we have these
patterns of thoughts
that are in our head that are
associated and essentially
in our bodies as well.
And then you have
the subconscious,
which permeates all.
Then you've got the super
conscious or the higher mind,
soul complex you might call it.
So you've got the voice,
the higher voice always kind
of tapping us on the shoulder
trying to let itself be known.
No, no, no, no,
this isn't what we
chose to do this time around.
Let's kind of get over
here and get back on track.
So you've got that
speaking to you,
and then you have this 5%
running everything that's
in control and is not going to
let its little fist unclench.
And that's re-entrenching
thoughts and feelings
from the past, which is
the subconscious permeating
everything, which is
everything we have ever
experienced that has ever
been this life, other lives.
Who knows?
Maybe from other realms, even.
And we don't know anything
about it consciously.
That's why it's called
the subconscious, right?
>>MCKENNA: Right.
>>REGINA: So you've got all
of these imprints and feelings
and traumas from this
lifetime and beyond that
are poking at you and
lodged in the body
and your mind's reinforcing.
So talk about that
complex a little bit more,
and then we'll go into
what Cognomovement does.
>>MCKENNA: So this is a
problem that all humans have.
>>REGINA: It's a
condition of being human.
This little part doesn't know
about all the other parts.
>>MCKENNA: Right.
And one of the
things is our body
is responsible,
through our energy
system, of holding on to those
thoughts and those feelings.
It does it because it's
trying to protect us.
Oh, you know--
>>REGINA: Survival.
>>MCKENNA: It's survival.
And the body doesn't
really know that this
is no longer serving me.
It's simply no
longer serving me.
So we find the
strangest things when
we're able to identify where
this particular emotional
thing.
And then we clear it
once we've actually
broken the loop in between the
conscious mind and the body.
>>REGINA: And we'll explain
how that happens functionally
in a bit--
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: --so people know
what you're talking about.
Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
So once we've done
that, then it's
simply the feeling goes away.
And when the feeling goes
away, the thought goes away.
You're not--
>>REGINA: So you
don't have anything
to reinforce this look anymore.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: There's
nowhere for it to go.
>>MCKENNA: If I don't have a
feeling, I don't have a loop.
I need the feeling
for the loop, right?
And most people don't even--
it's so subtle that they don't
even recognize it's happening.
You wake up, kind of like my
mom, in a feeling of dread.
And then--
>>REGINA: You don't know why.
>>MCKENNA: You don't know why.
But you will find a
reason to attach it to.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>MCKENNA: So that's what we do.
>>REGINA: Well, you take
your mom, for example.
She's going through life.
She probably didn't
plan on having 12 kids.
Who knows what she
thought might happen.
She probably thought
she'd have a family.
And so now the kids keep coming
and the kids keep coming,
and maybe she's just
simply overwhelmed.
And each day when she wakes up,
she's behind before she begins.
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
>>REGINA: And then this just--
every day it's reinforced.
I'm behind before I even begin.
The dread of waking up and
getting out of bed with 12 kids
waiting--
>>MCKENNA: Sure.
>>REGINA: --I can't
even fathom that.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So you can see that
long after the kids have gone,
that's been the pattern for--
and we each have our version
of this--
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
>>REGINA: --for so long.
How many years has
she been waking up
with the feeling of dread
after the family left?
>>MCKENNA: Oh, it never ended.
>>REGINA: That's
what I'm saying.
She kept waking up, but how many
years since the family left?
>>MCKENNA: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: The impetus-- what,
20, 30 years since the family
left.
>>MCKENNA: 30 years.
30.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>MCKENNA: It was a good 30.
>>REGINA: And so we all
have our own version
of this that carries forward
and we don't question it.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: It's just the
background feeling of life.
>>MCKENNA: It is.
And we don't think that
there's any other option.
Like I said, people are having
a war going on inside them
we know nothing about.
They have this feeling.
And to have a different
feeling, it's amazing.
What ends up happening is the
comment from people is, listen,
I feel like I'm in an
alternate timeline here.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: Because what
reality existed before now
doesn't exist for them.
They like, I don't
know what happened.
It's just gone.
And what really did happen
is we broke the loops.
>>REGINA: OK, now let's talk
about breaking the loops.
So we're accessing things that
we don't know consciously.
All different kinds of
therapies, all of them
have their value.
Some people can go and speak
with a psychotherapist,
for example, and maybe touch
on something strongly enough
they can say, I need to really
dig down here and let go.
And that may work.
Someone else will go
to a hypnotherapist.
And I used to do
that for people.
And that can work because
you can get in and see
what's hidden from you.
So the hidden part will
come up a little bit faster.
But oftentimes just because
you know, it doesn't change it.
So now what we're talking
about with Cognomovement
is going in, whether you
know what it is or not,
what caused it or not,
simply breaking and causing
an interference pattern
and breaking the pattern.
>>MCKENNA: You bet.
Yes, we're breaking the pattern.
I had a seminar,
and at the seminar
there was an ophthalmologist.
And during the break,
we invite people,
whatever issue they have.
Well, he said, listen, I
have some real tough cases.
And would you mind if I invited
them for all the students
to work on?
I said certainly.
Bring everybody.
I have no idea.
It's like tough
cases from a doctor?
I don't know what's going
to walk in the door.
So he says, listen,
this one here, there
was a situation in a communist
country where a family got
arrested because the father had
said something about leadership
in the country.
He said publicly.
And he was just--
it was matter of
fact, no big deal.
He got arrested.
The whole family gets arrested.
They're put in a prison camp.
And a 9-year-old daughter--
he has a 9-year-old daughter,
and she's put in along with
wife, grandma, everybody.
At a certain point
in time, there
is an execution that
is going to take place.
For some reason in
this country, you
have to have a witness
to the execution.
And they said to
the family, listen,
you've got to choose somebody
who's going to be a witness.
And they chose the
9-year-old little girl.
>>REGINA: I don't even want
to go into how that could have
happened--
>>MCKENNA: I don't know.
I have no idea.
>>REGINA: --to choose a child
to traumatize like that.
OK, so what happened?
>>MCKENNA: The 9-year-old
girl witnesses the execution.
>>REGINA: Of whom?
Someone in the family?
>>MCKENNA: Someone-- no,
it wasn't in the-- it
was someone else.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>MCKENNA: She witnessed it,
and it's only 2 feet away.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>MCKENNA: She gets
splattered with blood,
passes out, and wakes up blind.
>>REGINA: OK, you
can understand that.
>>MCKENNA: I understand.
Now she's 40-some-odd
years old, pushing 50.
She has a little bit
of vision in one eye,
but hardly anything.
The other eye is 100% blind.
And the doctor
says, listen, if you
say anything about the execution
and that this blindness is
related to it, then
you've lost her.
She won't do anything.
But I'm going to invite
her over because you
have some techniques.
Invites her over.
And I knew this.
So one of the fabulous
things about the work I do--
>>REGINA: Well, how could
you even do this with someone
who can't see?
>>MCKENNA: She had a little
bit of vision in one eye.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>MCKENNA: So there we are.
She comes in.
She has those dark glasses on.
And she's like this.
And she is in pain.
Literally, she's
in physical pain.
She said the only way that
she can get through life
is to lay on the floor.
Most days, she
literally just lays
on the floor in a dark room.
She comes in, and she's kind
of moaning, like, [GROANS]..
And she had her hat
on over her eyes,
the glasses on and covering
her eyes, into a room.
It's just a normal room
with normal lighting.
We had all the lights
off, but there's
a little bit of light coming in
from the windows, a little bit.
And I ended up working with her.
Now, what I did was I
merely took Cognomovement,
and I did Cognomovement
with her and told her,
only focus on your eyes.
I want you to feel
how upsetting it
is your whole life
with this vision,
that you are having problems,
that you're in such pain
that you are having
to have not a life.
You're laying on the floor.
I want you to feel that, and
I want you to concentrate
on the blind eye.
And it was about an
hour, an hour later.
We just worked with
her bit by bit.
>>REGINA: Did you do a little
bit of movement with the ball?
>>MCKENNA: A little bit.
>>REGINA: A tiny bit, as
much as she could see.
>>MCKENNA: As much
as she could take.
And it started off where the
first movements were like, ah!
And literally she
would fall over.
So I had to go really
slow, but I just
had her focus on her eyes.
And an hour later, bit by bit
by bit, the eyesight came back.
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>MCKENNA: The thing--
the glasses came off.
The hat comes off.
She is dancing,
literally dancing--
dancing.
So--
>>REGINA: Unbelievable.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, it
was just wonderful.
>>REGINA: Oh my gosh.
OK, now let's talk about
that and how that happens.
Because with someone
who is sighted,
a normal person, like you said--
you alluded to this earlier--
you have them focus on the pain.
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
>>REGINA: The problem.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, emotional.
>>REGINA: The emotional
problem, and to really feel it.
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
>>REGINA: Feel it.
Don't lose track of it.
Now, so that's living in the
emotional part of the body.
Might you might
even say possibly
associated with the
right side of the brain?
Right?
>>MCKENNA: Mm-hm.
>>REGINA: Now you're introducing
something cognitive, right?
>>MCKENNA: Right.
>>REGINA: So in this case,
it's this ball, right?
>>MCKENNA: Right.
>>REGINA: So you have this ball.
And so what happens
is you have people--
you're throwing or
the practitioner
is throwing the
ball back and forth
to different sides of
the body, back and forth.
And you have to, as the person
who's being worked with,
you have to identify
feeling what you're feeling
and then looking
at the color that's
most prominent as
it comes toward you
and say the color out loud.
>>MCKENNA: Correct.
>>REGINA: Now that's the
left side of the brain.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: You've engaged the
cognitive structured side
of the brain, right?
>>MCKENNA: Right.
So left brain was the
colors and symbols.
Right brain is the
three-dimensional object,
which is the ball.
And the crossing over,
over the center line--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MCKENNA: --is
crossing information
across the corpus callosum, left
and right sides of the brain.
>>REGINA: Which also
NLP and all this all
comes into it, kind of.
>>MCKENNA: Yes, it does.
Yes, it does.
We have a fabulous person that's
joined me, Liz Larson, who
is a master NLP practitioner.
And she was like, well, let's
start doing it low to high.
And when you're low,
your eyes are low,
you're actually connected to the
kinesthetic part of your body.
>>REGINA: So while
you're down low,
you can really feel the
feelings in the body.
So if you're receiving the
ball on a low trajectory,
you're able to stay in
the feelings more solidly.
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>MCKENNA: So it's kinesthetic.
It's the three ways that we
learn-- kinesthetic, auditory,
and visual.
Your kinesthetic is down.
Your level is auditory.
And your visual is up.
And every time you move
the ball left, right,
it also moves the information
left to right brain.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about what's happening.
You're tossing the ball
back and forth down low,
and you're seeing
a blue, orange.
Keep feeling it.
Keep feeling it, right?
>>MCKENNA: Yep.
>>REGINA: Keep coaching people.
Feel that feeling, right?
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: You feel it.
So what is happening there?
Because we want to move into
how it's breaking the patterns.
>>MCKENNA: Ahh, very good.
So interesting thing that this
has all evolved over time.
And the way that
this works is we're
challenging your neurological
response to things.
For example, if you are telling
a story about being victimized,
or you're telling a happy
story of something that
happened to you, you
will move your eyes
into a certain position.
You will--
>>REGINA: That's kind of
classic NLP stuff, right?
>>MCKENNA: Classic
NLP stuff, right?
>>REGINA: Neurolinguistic
Programming.
>>MCKENNA: You also have
postures and places outside
of you that this is as
well, which we'll get into.
But what we do is we
get you moving in ways
that you had not moved before.
And also we're lighting up
the part of the brain that
has this particular issue.
So when you think about a
particular issue, whatever
that issue might be,
you will light up
that part of the brain.
And when now you start
moving across the center
line of the body, it will
start moving information
to the opposite
lobe of the brain.
And not only that,
but you're moving it
on the different
parts of the brain.
So it's like creating genius.
And that's why we get
people that are just
having all kinds of
amazing creativity,
like I talked about
about that artist.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: It's just
simply mechanically
forcing greater
levels of creativity.
So not only will it work
on just your creativity,
but it works on so many
other things as well.
For example, we talked about
the woman who lost her eyesight.
We call it hysterical blindness.
But there was another woman--
>>REGINA: By the way, did
she maintain her eyesight?
>>MCKENNA: As far as I know.
As far as I know.
So there was another
woman who came to me,
and she had hearing
loss in one ear.
Now, this is interesting because
it ties into the Bio-Well.
Now, with the Bio-Well,
I found out about this
because I knew we were
feeling things in the body.
The last interview
I did with you,
we knew I could feel things
in the body happening.
And people were saying,
this is happening to me
in their chakras.
We didn't know.
So I went off, and fortunately
I ran into Tiffany Barsotti.
And she got me the Bio-Well
and all the training--
amazing trainer.
>>REGINA: And this is the
child of Konstantin Korotkov,
the Russian scientist--
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
>>REGINA: --who had done a
much larger, a little more
difficult to operate,
very sensitive
technology prior to
this that he wanted
to make it available to
practitioners and people,
everyday people, so you
could very quickly and easily
read the biofield
of an environment,
of people, et cetera.
So we just have to
back up a second there.
So the Bio-Well, you
stick your fingers in,
and it reads your
energy and reflects
that back in a graphic rendition
of where your energy is
distributed and
how forceful it is,
how weak it is, and so forth.
So it gives you some
evidence before and after
as to what happens in a session
and the way you're using it,
right?
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MCKENNA: It's
basically a combination
of Kirilian photography and
Korean finger tip acupuncture.
They know every single
meridian in your finger
and what it relates to
on the entire system.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>MCKENNA: Right?
So I go to the--
I do the three-day
seminar with Tiffany,
and she's talking
about what to look for.
And she mentioned, in one
of the reports that you get,
it shows you every
organ in your body.
And it can show you
your emotional energy
and your physical energy.
And she had mentioned, well, the
thorax behind the heart, when
the lines cross, in
this particular report,
you should ask the
question about betrayal.
So here I am.
I've got this woman.
She comes to me.
She's got hearing
loss in her ear.
And I take the Bio-Well reading.
And I'm looking at the
report, and, bam, there it is.
Behind the heart, the
lines have crossed over.
And I said, hey, you--
anything happen around the
time of loss of hearing?
Nope, just lost my hearing.
And she had spent a lot
of money on hearing aids,
stuff like that.
And so she didn't connect it.
And I said, well,
what about betrayal
right around the time of the
hearing loss and right before
then?
And she was like, oh, yeah.
She had two relatives
that were very, very close
to her that couldn't believe
it-- lifetime betrayal type
thing.
So I say, I want you to
just feel the betrayal.
And we're at a 95%
loss in that ear.
Feel the betrayal.
Boom, boom, boom.
We do it, and I just
kept her in the betrayal.
Checked in with her
after a few minutes.
The hearing's starting to
come back and more and more.
And this one ended
up-- we really
had to work for an hour or so,
but got all her hearing back.
>>REGINA: Holy cow.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah,
and the betrayal.
And consequently, the
betrayal, the feelings
of resentment and all those--
>>REGINA: Yes, everything
that goes with it.
>>MCKENNA: There's so many
things that go with it.
>>REGINA: Right.
Well, OK, so now did you
do her fingers afterward?
>>MCKENNA: Oh yeah.
>>REGINA: And then
what happened?
>>MCKENNA: The lines separated.
>>REGINA: The line
was separated.
>>MCKENNA: Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
Isn't that cool?
>>REGINA: It's so cool.
I mean, it's not a miracle.
You're doing something that
actually functionally works.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And this is
something that can be proven
and is functional.
So that's what's wonderful,
because for her, she already
knew.
She had her hearing back.
But for you, it helps you
understand, OK, we really
hit the mark because I can
even see it in her field.
>>MCKENNA: Oh,
it's a great tool.
I--
>>REGINA: You offered
to do that on me,
and I had done it once before.
And I didn't tell you why
I didn't want to do it.
But the time I did it--
how do I say this?
Some people live closer in
their bodies than others, right?
And when I did it, you can see
the chakras lining up in it,
right?
And that's the one
that they must have
read when I put my fingers in.
And so I was essentially
sitting next to myself.
And that has happened before.
So all my chakras were
lined up way over here.
It was fine.
It just wasn't anywhere
near me or my body.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And so it freaked
the other person out,
and they interpreted it
in a totally different way
than I feel it
and experience it.
So in that sense, you have to
know how to read a person too.
And I just thought, I'm
leaving that stuff alone.
I don't want any more
explanations, you know?
>>MCKENNA: Sure.
>>REGINA: So you
know what I mean?
>>MCKENNA: Yes, I do.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Because if someone had been
more mature in the use of it,
they might say, oh, well
this is interesting.
>>MCKENNA: That is.
As you go on in time, you
get more and more mature.
>>REGINA: More experience,
and then you can see, oh,
I see what this might mean.
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
>>REGINA: So anyway, I'm
just confessing to you,
that's why I didn't do it.
I thought, don't need to
hear some weird stuff here.
[LAUGHS]
>>MCKENNA: Understandable.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So anyway, you get the
feedback back there.
Now we're going to look at
some examples of some of the--
>>MCKENNA: Oh, OK.
>>REGINA: Do you
want to do that?
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK, we'll look
at some of the examples
where you got before and
after Bio-Well imprints.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
So let me get to my
notes because I actually
have to get back to my
notes now on this one.
OK, this one we're
going to look at here
is an image of a woman
who had a fear of falling.
>>MCKENNA: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: OK, tell
us about this woman.
And then we're going to look
at her Bio-Well before and then
what happened after.
>>MCKENNA: Woo!
>>REGINA: Here she is.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah,
so this one here--
>>REGINA: It looks
kind of raggedy.
It looks like she
has energy, but it's
kind of raggedy with
a couple little gaps,
a few gaps in there.
>>MCKENNA: Correct.
So down on the right femur--
>>REGINA: Right
femur, which would
be on the left side
of our looking at her.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah, as if
she's looking at you.
>>REGINA: Yes, exactly.
>>MCKENNA: You see
there's a gap there
right at the high
part of the femur.
This woman came to me
with a fear of falling.
And it was extreme.
So she was up 70s, 80s,
something like that.
I don't know the exact age, but
she looked physically capable.
But she was holding
onto everything
and looked very feeble.
>>REGINA: Just kind
of clutching in fear.
>>MCKENNA: Clutching in fear.
And this woman told me, listen,
I'm so afraid of falling.
And it's ruining my life.
I'm just, I'm afraid of falling.
And she says, I fell down,
and I busted my femur.
And it was extremely painful.
Well, digging a
little bit deeper,
it turned out that
this woman was isolated
by one of her children, and
during the process was denied
medication, the painkillers.
>>REGINA: You mean while she
was recovering from the break?
>>MCKENNA: No, I mean, they
hadn't even done the surgery.
>>REGINA: Oh, OK.
>>MCKENNA: And post
surgery as well.
So it was one of these kind
of tortured situations.
>>REGINA: Oh, yikes.
>>MCKENNA: The child
taking its resentment out
on the parent when the
parent was incapacitated.
>>REGINA: Vulnerable.
>>MCKENNA: Vulnerable.
And it was a torture
session, which
was horrible, because this
femur was busted like surgery.
It had to have surgery on it.
>>REGINA: Well,
you can see, yeah.
It's broken in the aura there.
>>MCKENNA: This is years--
this was years after the
whole thing took place.
The energy is still all
jagged and like that.
So this woman busted her femur.
And during that process,
what ended up happening is
she was being caretaken by her
offspring, one of her children.
And this child abused
her during the process,
denied drugs, and was
controlling, and basically
had a situation where
it was like, you're
going to get it now.
>>REGINA: Oh, yikes.
I mean, can you fathom?
I mean, imagine her
all those years later
and the terror of having to go
through that kind of betrayal
and trauma and such from
your own family member.
I'd be clutching
to everything too.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
It's like, do you want
this to happen again?
>>REGINA: Exactly, all
buried in your body,
not even knowing why
you're clutching anymore.
>>MCKENNA: So there we are.
So I said, OK,
just feel the fear.
I want you to feel the fear.
Yes, you could end up
in that same situation.
>>REGINA: And the energy is
still missing on the left side
of the picture--
>>MCKENNA: That's right.
>>REGINA: --her right femur.
Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
And it didn't take much.
It only took about 20 minutes.
And we went through all the
different aspects of it.
And she says, oh,
it's just gone.
And she felt it
move in her body.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: It moved right up,
the feeling, the sensation.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>MCKENNA: And it moved out.
And the fear went away.
And afterward, she's walking
around, not clutching
a damn thing, just
walking like--
>>REGINA: Well, let's
look at the next image,
because you then did
the Bio-Well on her.
>>MCKENNA: Again,
yeah, yeah, yeah.
>>REGINA: Now look at.
>>MCKENNA: It all filled in.
>>REGINA: All filled in.
>>REGINA: The energy became
vibrant in that area.
And not only that.
Around the rest of the aura,
it's not as jaggedy looking.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
That's what fear will do to you.
It's a really good
lesson for all of us.
You feel like the energy
lost when you're in fear.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: You don't
feel much energy.
>>REGINA: Yeah, like we
talked about earlier.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK, let's go--
this is another one.
And this, I think, a lot
of people suffer from.
This is about the emotion of
forgiveness, before and afters.
>>MCKENNA: OK, yes, so
this person is actually me.
>>REGINA: [LAUGH] You
didn't tell me that.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
This one, I figured something
out around forgiveness.
So I was having some
digestion problems.
And here, you'll see
the energy center
down there in the lower
abdomen is way off.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>MCKENNA: And there were some
other reports that showed me
some areas of the body,
like around the legs, where
I had hurt myself when I was, I
think, maybe 16, 17 years old.
And I had suffered not
only breaking my leg,
but at the same point in time,
I felt my girlfriend betrayed me
or something like that.
And anyway, what happened is
because my digestion was off,
I took a reading.
And I saw all of this.
And I saw kind of
the gap in my aura
down where I broke my leg
when I was 17 or whatever.
And I was like, oh
my gosh, that was
the time when I really
had this resentment
towards those people.
>>REGINA: Being dumped by
your girlfriend or whatever.
>>MCKENNA: Being dumped, yeah--
teenage thing.
And so anyway, I was like,
oh, I'll just forgive.
I haven't thought
about that in 40 years.
What the heck is
that coming up for?
I forgave, and then
this is what happened.
Look at this.
>>REGINA: Oh my.
Look at that.
Everything's all lined up.
>>MCKENNA: And that-- yeah.
>>REGINA: And what
happened to your digestion?
>>MCKENNA: Oh, it
helped the digestion.
Not only did it
help the digestion,
but for me to forgive,
it's very fast for me.
And so that was only
like three minutes.
And then I just put
my finger back in.
Pop.
And I was like, ha, ha, ha.
And the energy field returned--
>>REGINA: I love it.
>>MCKENNA: --around
my leg and everything.
>>REGINA: I love it.
>>MCKENNA: It's so funny.
>>REGINA: Can a person go
back to the first betrayal
that they can remember
in their lifetime?
Can they go back
to that betrayal?
Because that
betrayal obviously is
stuck in the subconscious
from that point forward.
And it's going to
dictate how they
respond to future
potential betrayals, right?
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
>>REGINA: Can you go back
and work on the first one
and have that have a knock-on
effect of healing the others?
>>MCKENNA: It does.
It does have a knock-on
effect of healing.
When we work on
anything, especially
those early, early memories
that were fairly traumatic,
it can really affect
everything after that.
We've had so many
things about this
that we've kind of learned.
And one of the things
that we learned
is that maybe for
me, forgiveness,
because I had some experiences.
Now I know it's in
my best interest.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>MCKENNA: So now it's
become easy for me
because I know that's
in my best interest.
But for most of us
is that forgiveness,
we might say we're forgiving
them, but we really don't.
We hold it in our bodies.
We're like, yeah, I forgive you.
But [GRUNT] if I could, right?
You still have
feelings around it.
And so when we
have these, they're
stuck in our energy
field like WE
talked about before in our body,
is I can't help how I feel.
So what we do is we
actually allow the person
to feel the present completely
and do the Cognomovement, which
basically helps it to
literally move out of the body.
And forgiveness becomes easy
if I don't feel anything.
Imagine who you don't feel
anything about what they did,
well, do I forgive you?
Of course.
I don't feel anything.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>MCKENNA: Right?
What's to forgive?
There's nothing to forgive
because I don't feel anything.
There was an amazing
one on a woman,
and she was going to leave
her husband and the resentment
towards her husband.
>>REGINA: OK, tell us
what we're looking at.
We have the green
and the blue stacks
and then the ones that
are more shadowed.
>>MCKENNA: So this
one, I love this story
because it saved a whole family
and three kids, maybe four.
I think it was
three or four kids.
So this woman comes to
me, and she said, listen,
I'm going to leave my husband.
She has a lot of
resentment, very angry--
very, very angry.
And I said, OK, all right, fine.
Let's just take a
reading here and see
what I can do to help you
at least to move forward.
And so we take the reading.
And here you'll
see at the bottom
it shows 30 different organs.
Now across the entire
thing, all this graph
is every single organ,
that 31 different organs.
And the different
colors are left, right.
So each column has a left,
right that's sympathetic,
parasympathetic.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>MCKENNA: Over to the left-hand
side is the amount of joules.
This is joules of energy.
So this is really
important because you know
the work of Dr. Jerry Tennant.
You had on him--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MCKENNA: --electric health.
Wonderful man.
He went to Harvard.
And he gave me the idea around
actual electricity in the body
and that we have--
the less lower voltage means
less health and greater
voltage, greater health.
So here with the
Bio-Well, we can actually
tell the electrical charge
of every single organ.
>>REGINA: That's crazy, yeah.
>>MCKENNA: So over to the
left, so here you can see all
the energy that is in
every single organ,
in which the organs that
are off balance, meaning--
>>REGINA: The left and right.
>>MCKENNA: --left and right,
those ones are highlighted.
Those ones are highlighted.
So over the course
of a few hours--
this was a real severe case.
Over the course of a few hours,
I worked with this woman,
and I just had her feel
all the resentments
towards her husband.
And not only were we able to
vacate those out of her body,
but not only that,
but we got her
to the point of feeling
love, real love for him.
I call it Cognopositive.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: If you actually feel
the love and do the movement,
watch what happens.
>>REGINA: And this
is what happened.
Just one organ left
that was out of balance.
>>MCKENNA: But look
at the difference.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: The amount of
energy is double, right?
>>REGINA: Yeah, huge.
>>MCKENNA: So when people
have this doubling of energy,
it literally means that the
electricity in the body is
greater, and you have
more vibrant energy--
>>REGINA: Available to you
to use in positive ways and--
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: And you're
not tired anymore.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: How many husbands and
wives are dragging themselves
home and, I'm so tired.
I'm so tired.
You know why you're so tired?
Is because of this.
Your energy is depleted.
And why is it depleted?
It's because of all of
these experiences in life
that have been
stacked up that you're
resenting or not able to
process the events of life.
It was such a
wonderful story that I
worked with a lot of
people of all ages.
But in some of the workshops
that I do that go on
for an extended period
of time, there's
women that are in there, 75.
And they've gone from I'm
so tired and bedraggled
and everything to they
are like sleeping--
they've cut their sleep
in half, and they're
so happy and vibrant.
And it's coming out
in the strangest ways.
It's like they're
teenagers or something.
They're like--
>>REGINA: Oh, you
mean they were lonely.
>>MCKENNA: Oh, they want a
boyfriend, and they're like,
all my shame is gone, and
all the guilt of a lifetime.
And they're like-- they're
getting boyfriends.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: I love it.
Oh my god.
Well, let's talk about this
because I've known you since--
well, from the beginning
of this, right?
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And
watched you evolve.
And you used to spend
some of your time
going down and helping work
with people that were homeless.
And you really just kind
of put yourself out there
to see what this could do.
And over the years, it's
evolved into this much more
refined, now, practice.
So you offer online classes.
If you're not lucky enough,
like I am, to sit here with you
and say, hey,
let's do a session,
how do people connect,
then, with what you do?
Because I know you're now
certifying other practitioners.
So how do people get
Cognomovement into their lives?
>>MCKENNA: Oh, gosh.
So, yeah, things
have so expanded.
We have doctors and
therapists and psychologists
and everybody's--
>>REGINA: I know.
It's crazy the last few
years it's exploded.
>>MCKENNA: Oh yeah.
And it's attacking
the problem from
a whole different perspective.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>MCKENNA: So you're applying
the body to the problem.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>MCKENNA: Right?
And it's fast, and it's easy.
So the way that
they can connect is
if they're interested in
becoming a practitioner,
we have practitioner
certification programs,
where they learn all of
these things about the eyes
and what's not happening
and how to help them
make it happen for a person.
So we have a
certification around that.
We have all kinds of
classes that are ongoing,
classes that you can
join and seminars.
Plus we have-- basically it's
like online courses that go on.
They're beyond
training, beyond just
learning how to do the basics.
But we found that in order
for people to really elevate
themselves to this whole new
level, where they're just like,
I am no longer affected.
My suffering is optional.
They're no longer suffering.
You need to go at it
for a period of time.
You have to sign up
for a course and just
keep going and attacking other
different parts of your life.
And when you do that, you just
stop reacting to anything.
>>REGINA: So you just
take one issue at a time,
one feeling at a time,
and you work it through--
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: --till that
part has liberated itself
from your body.
>>MCKENNA: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
And then it's like, oops,
there's this other thing.
I'll go work on that again.
And you work through till
each of the major things that
have haunted you, so to
speak, are eliminated
from what appears to be the
physical, which is actually
much more than the physical.
>>MCKENNA: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: It's healing
the subconscious, really.
>>MCKENNA: Correct.
We are.
We're vacating it
from the body--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MCKENNA: --and
the subconscious.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>MCKENNA: And so they literally
don't have a reaction anymore.
It's a fairly simple process.
But what we do is we'll take
a subject like victimization.
And inside victimization is
grief, is shame, is blame.
Maybe some revenge
would go in there.
Whatever it might
be, and we just
attack it from all those
angles and really clear it out.
And we work on manifesting.
Because what happens
is, if you imagine,
there's a whole different
positive aspect of this.
If I can align both halves of
your hemisphere of your brain
and align your entire
chakra system, your energy
system, and both are
all focused on one goal,
amazing things happen.
We have people getting
married and buying houses
and financially changing.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah, the
coherence that would happen.
Not just coherence,
but the lack of leakage
of energy every which way.
To have it available
and, like you say, focus
it into a desired outcome--
>>MCKENNA: Oh.
It's--
>>REGINA: Pretty potent stuff.
>>MCKENNA: It is.
I'll tell you this story.
I had a guy.
He's the parent of an adult
child come to me and says,
listen, my son, he said,
it's not a matter of if, dad.
It's a matter of when.
I'm going to do it.
I'm going to commit suicide.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: I've tried
all your psychologists.
I've tried everything.
I've tried this, that,
and the other thing, drugs
and what have you.
And I'm just done.
And you can try to throw me in
an institution or something.
But I'm just going to do it.
And so he comes to me and he
says the kid was telling him,
I just need to work
up the courage, dad.
So that's--
>>REGINA: So you
worked with the kid?
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And what was the
key thing you worked on?
>>MCKENNA: Well, it was
actually over three days.
It was kind of one of
these things that was--
>>REGINA: A marathon.
>>MCKENNA: --a marathon.
And I said, I'm not
going to give up on this.
Because this person
I needed to help.
So we did it.
And I said, part time each
day, I'm going to come in,
and we're going to
do a different thing.
And we just went through
resentment towards the parents,
because those are
primary relationships,
and we've got to fix that.
So we did that.
And one by one, it
vacated, one by one.
And he was a person that
really felt things, physically.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
>>MCKENNA: When he got a
release, he was like, ahh!
And he had pain in his hands,
and it was very intense
for him.
So that was kind of
the setup of his body.
After three days,
there was nothing left.
He was like, I am at peace.
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>MCKENNA: There is nothing.
No, I'm not going to do it.
I'm fine.
And he was.
But I had scheduled up--
because the guy--
I said, well, I was on my
way there the fourth day.
And the fourth day, I'm on
the road, and it hit me.
I got nothing else
for this guy to clear.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: And it hit me.
You know what?
Let's turn this thing around.
And what we did is I
said, you know what?
Imagine that you have
now a credit card.
money in your bank account.
Imagine you have a job.
Imagine that you now
have a new house,
and your son, who you
can't support, loves you
and you're living
with him in the house.
And imagine that you've got all
those things of the material
world that you need
to have a great life.
And the people at
your job love you.
So I went one by one.
I'm doing
Cognomovement with him.
>>REGINA: With
the good feelings.
>>MCKENNA: With
And I'm supporting him
in the good feelings.
And it was the craziest
thing that happened.
I'm there, and we're doing it.
And it's about seven minutes in.
And, yeah, you've
got the credit card.
Oh my god, you just put the
down payment on the new house.
Oh my god.
Da, da, da, da.
All of a sudden it was seven
minutes in and it was, [GRUNT]..
And he was there and he froze.
And the look on his
face was like, [SHRIEK]..
And I was like, oh, my--
>>REGINA: What happened?
>>MCKENNA: I was like, oh, 911.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: I was worried.
I was like, I've never
seen this before.
What?
And he goes, [GROAN].
And then he dropped the ball.
And I was like, oh, boy.
We're going to have
to call an ambulance.
And then finally
he was like, ah.
I said, what happened?
He said, I'm OK.
I'm all right.
He said that he felt
what he could only
describe as a full-body orgasm.
>>REGINA: Orgasm.
[LAUGHTER]
I love it.
Well, I have to ask this
because we're out of time.
Is it just the magic of Bill
that's making this happen?
Because you love this.
You're so passionate.
You work so-- commit in such
a committed way with people.
Or are the other
people practicing this
also getting the
results with people?
>>MCKENNA: Oh my gosh, yes.
So--
>>REGINA: OK.
>>MCKENNA: Yeah.
So we have certified
practitioners across the United
States now.
We have so many.
Not only are they
getting the results.
But because we're doing this
now in classes, kind of like you
have a yoga class.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: You're doing
it, Cognomovement--
>>REGINA: You should
do it with little kids.
>>MCKENNA: --for
the whole class.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: Oh, gosh, I've got to
tell you about the little kids.
So the answer is yes.
Even teachers.
We certify, there's a
teacher, this one in Oregon.
What happened is
the year before,
he had 100 principal referrals.
And then after he started
using Cognomovement
in the classroom two times
a day for two minutes--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: Two.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
that makes sense.
That's what I was saying, is
little kids, because they don't
have a lot of programming
yet, this would-- well,
from other times maybe,
but in this time.
I think that's amazing.
What an amazing tool for
kids in the classroom.
I love it.
>>MCKENNA: Well, just the
principal referrals alone.
>>REGINA: Well, what
about even at home?
Or you can do this
with each other.
When you do it, you know exactly
what to do as a practitioner,
how to move the ball
around and track the eye
movement and everything.
But at home, if you can just
do this with the feeling
and tossing the ball back and
forth with another person,
you can still get effect, right?
>>MCKENNA: Oh, you betcha.
And that's what the
website's all about.
We have an entire library
that people can join and get
a library and go at it.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>MCKENNA: And they
can do it themselves.
These are actual classes.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Well, you know what?
And you did it because
you're so excited to wake up
every day to serve humanity.
Since I met you years ago
you've been like this.
And this came out of that
enthusiasm and excitement,
your observation, all
your skill from the past.
And you created Cognomovement.
And congratulations.
It's gone so far already.
>>MCKENNA: Oh, well,
and you know what?
We have so many people
that have contributed.
I can't even tell you.
And it's become a movement.
>>REGINA: It is,
a Cognomovement.
>>MCKENNA: [LAUGHS].
>>REGINA: OK, well, Bill,
thank you again so much.
And we'll talk to you later on
and hear some more wonderfully
inspirational stories.
And meanwhile, we'll
tell people how
they can connect with you, OK?
>>MCKENNA: Thanks.
>>REGINA: OK.
Thanks, Bill.
I hope this has been
eye opening for you,
especially if you don't know
Bill's work from the past.
And if you want to connect with
Bill, you can go to his work
at cognomovement.com.
Now if you're enjoying
this conversation,
you can also go to my
previous interviews
with Bill here in
the Gaia archives.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]